---
layout: project
title:  "Information Extraction"
image: "extraction.png"
featured: true
teaser: "We are developing methods to automatically extract scientific facts burried in scientific publications"
description: " A wealth of valuable data is locked within the millions of research articles published each year. We are researching methods to liberate this data via hybrid human-machine models."
---
A wealth of valuable data is locked within the millions of research articles published each year. We are researching methods to liberate this data via hybrid human-machine models.
[https://figshare.com/articles/CHIMaD_Poster_Roselyne_2015_pptx/3146842](Figshare Posters)

The amount of scientific literature published every year is growing at an alarming rate. As a result, the amount of information such as experiment results and methods used locked within published literature is overwhelming. This loosely structure data is encoded in manuscript of different formats, embedded in tables, figures and equations and therefore not directly machine accessible. Leveraging this information in practice of for incremental research has become an unmanageable task for scientists. For example, in molecular engineering, researchers and engineers use properties of materials to design new compounds. However, these scientific facts (i.e., properties) are not readily searchable and extractable from materials literature. A property of special interest in this field is the Flory-Huggins interaction parameter χ, which measures the interaction of polymer chains with solvent molecules as well as polymer-polymer interactions. Capturing χ only makes sense when context and provenance of measurement is also extracted. Hence, automating the extraction task is currently challenging or impossible. To address this challenging, we had previously designed a crowdsourcing framework for extracting χ, called χDB in order to learn about how this parameter is published in literature and potentially use this information to move towards automatic extraction. The goal was to collect “ground truth” data that could be used to train a machine-learning model for automatic classification (and eventually extraction from) of publications. We give an overview of the framework, present how χ is currently found in our dataset and present initial results on automatically classifying publications containing this parameter. Our classifier achieves 86% precision vs. only 40% of keyword search results actually containing the Flory-Huggins parameter. [https://sites.google.com/site/gcasrworkshop/2016] (GCASR 2016 Abstract)
